Transcript
Okay, so let's explore the IAM console.

So for this, I'm going to type "IAM"

and then this will take me straight to a console

of an AWS service called IAM.

So the first thing we notice,

is that on the top right corner, under "Global",

it says that IAM does not require region selection.

What this means is that IAM is a global service,

whereas many other AWS services will be regional services

and there will be a region selection.

But for IAM, users and groups are created

in a global fashion.

Okay. So we are in the IAM dashboard.

And the first thing we want to do is to create an IAM user.

So I'm going to go under "Users" and click on "Add users".

So why do we want to create a user?

Well, as we can see,

if you click on the account name right here,

we are using the root user.

The root user has all the permissions

you want in your account, okay?

It can do anything you want.

But therefore it's a very dangerous account to use.

The better way is to create a administrator account

that we're going to create right now.

And this admin account will be able to do everything

the root account does or almost,

and we will let the root go.

And we use the root account

only if we really, really ever need to.

This is from a security perspective, the best setup.

So as we can see, we're going to create a username

and that one is going to be "stephane".

And then we need to select the credential type.

So we'll enable the password type of credential

and we can autogenerate it or create a custom password.

And because this is my own account,

I can just set a custom password and be done with it.

So we don't require a password reset,

and then we click on "Next: Permissions".

I will not save this.

Now, we need to add the user into a group.

So we're going to create a group.

And this group is going to be called "admin".

Now, any user placed within the group "admin",

will inherit the permissions associated with that group.

And so permissions are defined through policies.

And the one policy we're going to attach

to the "admin" group is called "AdministratorAccess".

So this policy will allow any account under this group

to be an administrator of your account.

So let's go ahead and create this group.

And next, click on "Tags".

So in AWS, you will find tags pretty much everywhere.

And they're just information that can help you track,

organize or control access for users.

And so we're not going to create tags everywhere

for our course, okay?

But what I can show you is how to create a tag for our user.

And this is just information you want to add

regarding that specific user, okay?

So for example, I can say that the "Department" of my user

is "Engineering".

And you can have any tags you want on many resources in AWS.

I'm just showing you how to do it once.

Now, let's click on "Review".

So we've created a username "stephane",

with password access to the Management Console.

And then the group it belongs to, is the "admin" group.

And the tags is "Department: Engineering".

So let's go ahead and create this user.

And now the user is created.

So before we go there, you need to download the .csv

especially if you autogenerated a password.

So this "Download .csv"

will have the credentials of your users contained within it.

And you can also email login instructions

to a specific email if you're creating a user

for someone else.

But this is our own user, so are we good to go.

So we'll close this and now let's explore

what we have created.

So under "User groups", I will find the group "admin".

And if I click on it,

I can see that there's one user in this group,

which is the "stephane" user.

And if I look at the group permissions, as we can see,

there's a policy name attached to the group,

which is the "AdministratorAccess",

which provides full admin access to any users

within the group.

And so if we go and click on the user "stephane".

So this is a user.

You can also get back from this menu on the left-hand side

and just click on "Users > stephane".

Okay.

So if you click on the user "stephane" back to it.

Okay, great.

We have these permissions and the permissions

associated with my user is "AdministratorAccess".

And this is a managed policy that we inherited

from the group admin, okay?

So we have our users and we have our groups.

And now we're going to see how to log in

with that user, "stephane".

So to do so let's go back into the dashboard.

And on the right-hand side of the dashboard,

we have some summary about our AWS account.

So the account ID is right here,

which can also get to by opening this panel.

So this is the same account ID here, and here.

And the account alias is what you can set

to log in to your account faster,

because remembering numbers sometimes is difficult.

So you can create an account alias,

and you just have to specify an alias that you like.

For example, "stephane-aws-v2".

And click on "Save changes".

Now, this is a unique alias for my account.

You're not going to be able to-

You're not going to be able to use this account,

this alias for your account, but you can create your own.

And now we have a sign-in URL on the right-hand side

that is customized for my alias.

So if I click on "Copy this URL",

I need to open it in a new tab,

but it must be an incognito tab or a different web browser.

So here I've opened a private window in Firefox,

which is going to be a different session.

And so therefore I can copy the sign-in URL

and paste it here and press enter.

Now we are taken again to the login page of AWS.

And as we can see, we have three fields.

We have the "Account ID", the "IAM user name"

and the password.

So what's happening here, is that we, using this URL,

are taken to a sign-in page as an IAM user.

And how do we know this?

How can we get back to this page if we wanted to?

Well, when we went into the "Sign in", we had two options,

either "Root user", which will log you in as a root user,

or "IAM user", in which case you just need

to enter the account ID or the account alias

and then click on "Next",

which will take you into the page that we had from before,

which was this page right here.

So now in this page, what I need to do

is to enter my IAM username and the password

that I just created.

And then click on "Sign in".

And we are now logged in as an IAM user in the console.

So how do we know this?

Well, if you're logged in as your user,

as you can see when you click on the account,

it says "My Account" and the account number.

This is a root user.

But if we go on the right-hand side,

we can see that there's "stephane @"

and then the account alias.

And so what we can see is that "stephane"

is the IAM user "stephane", and then "My Account"

and the account number.

So we know on the right-hand side,

that we're logged in as an IAM user.

Now this IAM user can do pretty much anything

that the other user was able to do, the root user,

because they're both admins, okay?

But from a course perspective, it's better

if you use an IAM user, than using the root account.

Now you will see in some videos, I have the root user,

and some videos, I have the IAM user.

It doesn't really matter from the course perspective, okay?

So I will use them as I please.

But if I need to-

If I need to use the root user specifically,

I will let you know.

Or if I need to use an IAM user specifically,

I will let you know as well, okay?

But just so you know, to keep on doing to this section,

please have the root account,

as well as your IAM user ready and available.

So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it.

And I will see you in the next lecture.


Click the "Create a new note" box, the "+" button, or press "B" to make your first note.
Teach the world online
Create an online video course, reach students across the globe, and earn money
Top companies choose Udemy Business to build in-demand career skills.
NasdaqVolkswagenBoxNetflixEventbrite
Udemy Business
Teach on Udemy
Get the app
About us
Contact us
Careers
Blog
Help and Support
Affiliate
Investors
Terms
Privacy policy
Cookie settings